				 /software

			    SBML Collection CD
				 Release 2
				2003.11.3

			   http://www.sbml.org/
		       mailto:sbml-team@caltech.edu

This folder contains a number of software packages having the ability to
read and write models in SBML format.  Many of these packages were
developed and maintained by third parties, not the ERATO Kitano Symbiotic
Systems project.  Please see the individual software folders for more
information about their authors, terms of distribution, instructions for
use, and other information.

This collection of software is only a small fraction of the software
packages known to support SBML today.  At the time of this writing, over 30
software packages can read and/or write SBML, and more are being developed.
Please visit the project website, http://www.sbml.org, for a more complete
list.

Disclaimers:

The inclusion of these software packages on this CD-ROM is for the purpose
of giving readers easy access to a sample of tools that support SBML today.
It does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by the authors of
this CD-ROM or their parent institutions.

The software and documentation provided hereunder is on an "as is" basis,
and the California Institute of Technology, the Japan Science and
Technology Corporation, and The Systems Biology Institute have no
obligations to provide maintenance, support, updates, enhancements or
modifications.  In no event shall the California Institute of Technology,
or the Japan Science and Technology Corporation, or The Systems Biology
Institute, be liable to any party for direct, indirect, special, incidental
or consequential damages, including lost profits, arising out of the use of
this software and its documentation, even if the California Institute of
Technology and/or Japan Science and Technology Corporation and/or The
Systems Biology Institute have been advised of the possibility of such
damage.
