<!-- MHonArc v2.4.6 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: [sbml&#45;discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2 -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Intare,Xbua" <XIntareNafb.hpup.rqh> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 11:27:15 &#45;0700 -->
<!--X-Message-Id: C7C279D983E9C4488C3BFDB43C2DAE2CD37636@ITEVS.uchc.net -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Head-End-->
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:JWagner@nso.uchc.edu">
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="white">
<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->
<HR>
[<A HREF="msg00602.html">Date Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00604.html">Date Next</A>][<A HREF="msg00608.html">Thread Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00609.html">Thread Next</A>][<A HREF="maillist.html#00603">Date Index</A>][<A HREF="threads.html#00603">Thread Index</A>]
<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<H1>RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</H1>
<HR>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;Sven Sahle&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:sven.sahle@eml.villa-bosch.de">sven.sahle@eml.villa-bosch.de</A>&gt;,  &lt;<A HREF="mailto:sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu">sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Wagner,John&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:JWagner@nso.uchc.edu">JWagner@nso.uchc.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 14:22:16 -0400</LI>
<LI>Thread-Index: AcNxfHjVeT/BlNS3Sa2nsqaYqP9KtwAAm8dw</LI>
<LI>Thread-Topic: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<HR>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>
&gt; I view Jonathan´s suggestion as an interesting information
&gt; about what biospice´s needs are. However it doesn´t seem
&gt; to reflect a lot of the discussion that was going on 
&gt; on this list. 
&gt; [...]
&gt; It might be a good idea if the DWG would come up with a joint 
&gt; proposal for the 
&gt; november meeting. 
I couldn't agree more.

&gt; Sven
John




</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<HR>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<UL>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00602.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00604.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Prev by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00608.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00609.html">[sbml-discuss] DWG: Revised Proposal</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Index(es):
<UL>
<LI><A HREF="maillist.html#00603"><STRONG>Date</STRONG></A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="threads.html#00603"><STRONG>Thread</STRONG></A></LI>
</UL>
</LI>
</UL>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</BODY>
</HTML>
