<!-- MHonArc v2.4.6 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: [sbml&#45;discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2 -->
<!--X-From-R13: Egrsna Vbbcf <fubbcfNig.rqh> -->
<!--X-Date: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 12:13:06 &#45;0700 -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 20030902150401.08e4a78a.shoops@vt.edu -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 003d01c36ee6$09aecd10$0200a8c0@AFINNEYLAPTOP -->
<!--X-Reference: 200309021610.54084.sven.sahle@eml.villa&#45;bosch.de -->
<!--X-Head-End-->
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:shoops@vt.edu">
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="white">
<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->
<HR>
[<A HREF="msg00603.html">Date Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00605.html">Date Next</A>][<A HREF="msg00602.html">Thread Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00605.html">Thread Next</A>][<A HREF="maillist.html#00604">Date Index</A>][<A HREF="threads.html#00604">Thread Index</A>]
<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<H1>Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</H1>
<HR>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: <A HREF="mailto:sbml-discuss@caltech.edu">sbml-discuss@caltech.edu</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Stefan Hoops &lt;<A HREF="mailto:shoops@vt.edu">shoops@vt.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Tue, 2 Sep 2003 15:04:01 -0400</LI>
<LI><em>Organization</em>: Virginia Bioinformatics Institute</LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<HR>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>
Hello All,

I strongly agree with Sven the DWG group needs to come up with a joint proposal.

I actually had some problem with the way this proposal was handled. It really smells like SBML == BioSpice. We should strongly avoid this! 

People from BioSpice play an important role but other people in the DWG group are as important. Nobody suggest the proposal from EML to be incorporated into SBML. People are clearly treated differently with respect to their political cloud. We need to be fair to everybody! 

Note: I do not want start a flame war here ;)

Stefan
 
On Tue, 02 Sep 2003 16:10:54 +0200
Sven Sahle &lt;sven.sahle@eml.villa-bosch.de&gt; wrote:

&gt; Hello all,
&gt; 
&gt; On Saturday 30 August 2003 13:01, Andrew Finney wrote:
&gt; &gt; Folks
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Jonathan Webb of BBN technologies has written a proposal for a layout
&gt; &gt; extension
&gt; [...]
&gt; &gt; Please comment on its incorporation into SBML.
&gt; 
&gt; I view Jonathan´s suggestion as an interesting information about what 
&gt; biospice´s needs are. 
&gt; However it doesn´t seem to reflect a lot of the discussion that was going on 
&gt; on this list. 
&gt; 
&gt; We think it is especially important to separate between layout and render 
&gt; information. Layout information is just where in the diagram the different 
&gt; layout elements (species, reactions, compartments, labels) are, how big they 
&gt; are, and how they are connected. This is covered by our suggestion 
&gt; (<A  HREF="http://projects.eml.org/bcb/sbml/level1">http://projects.eml.org/bcb/sbml/level1</A>; another revision is being worked 
&gt; on). Render informations is about colours, shapes, line widths, bitmaps. This 
&gt; might be difficult to agree on because certainly different programs would 
&gt; have different needs here.  
&gt; 
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; organizational comments:
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; strictly IMHO - Mike Hucka will probably have comments
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; If there is consensus I don't see why we can't incorporate this
&gt; &gt; into SBML before the November meeting.  For example I can take
&gt; &gt; Jonathan's
&gt; &gt; description and extend the SBML specification as a proposed Level 2
&gt; &gt; Version 2.
&gt; &gt; We could then vote on this using Survey Monkey and/or have an SBML forum
&gt; &gt; conference call to discuss this.  I think this is a viable idea
&gt; &gt; since Jonathan's proposal is close enough to what people are actually
&gt; &gt; doing with their implementations.  Similar proposals have been
&gt; &gt; described at SBML forums previously with reasonable consensus.
&gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; Folks what do you think?
&gt; 
&gt; It might be a good idea if the DWG would come up with a joint proposal for the 
&gt; november meeting. 
&gt; 
&gt; Sven
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 


-- 
Stefan Hoops, Ph.D.
Senior Research Associate
Virginia Bioinformatics Institute
1880 Pratt Dr.
Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA

Phone: (540) 231-1799
Fax: (540) 231-2606
Email: shoops@vt.edu




</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<HR>
<UL><LI><STRONG>Follow-Ups</STRONG>:
<UL>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00605" HREF="msg00605.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> Michael Hucka &lt;mhucka@caltech.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00606" HREF="msg00606.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> &quot;Andrew Finney&quot; &lt;afinney@cds.caltech.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
</UL></LI></UL>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<UL><LI><STRONG>References</STRONG>:
<UL>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00600" HREF="msg00600.html">FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> &quot;Andrew Finney&quot; &lt;afinney@cds.caltech.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00602" HREF="msg00602.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> Sven Sahle &lt;sven.sahle@eml.villa-bosch.de&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
</UL></LI></UL>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<UL>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00603.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00605.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Prev by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00602.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00605.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Index(es):
<UL>
<LI><A HREF="maillist.html#00604"><STRONG>Date</STRONG></A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="threads.html#00604"><STRONG>Thread</STRONG></A></LI>
</UL>
</LI>
</UL>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</BODY>
</HTML>
