<!-- MHonArc v2.4.6 -->
<!--X-Subject: RE: [sbml&#45;discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2 -->
<!--X-From-R13: "Oaqerj Tvaarl" <nsvaarlNpqf.pnygrpu.rqh> -->
<!--X-Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 10:59:21 &#45;0700 -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 002401c372b8$50c591e0$0200a8c0@AFINNEYLAPTOP -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 20030902150401.08e4a78a.shoops@vt.edu -->
<!--X-Head-End-->
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:afinney@cds.caltech.edu">
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="white">
<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->
<HR>
[<A HREF="msg00605.html">Date Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00607.html">Date Next</A>][<A HREF="msg00605.html">Thread Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00607.html">Thread Next</A>][<A HREF="maillist.html#00606">Date Index</A>][<A HREF="threads.html#00606">Thread Index</A>]
<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<H1>RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</H1>
<HR>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: &quot;'Sbml-Discuss (E-mail)'&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:sbml-discuss@caltech.edu">sbml-discuss@caltech.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: &quot;Andrew Finney&quot; &lt;<A HREF="mailto:afinney@cds.caltech.edu">afinney@cds.caltech.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 08:44:02 +0100</LI>
<LI>Importance: Normal</LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<HR>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>
Stefan

I totally agree with your views: SBML != Biospice.

I'd like to clarify a few issues:

The most important issue with respect to SBML standardization
is concensus.  We won't incorperate anything into SBML unless
its clear a very significant majority of the community, that
is people reading this mailing list and attending forum
meetings, think the given proposal is acceptable. That is why
I wrote "If there is concensus..." in my original posting
(see below).

Strictly within the bounds of the above principle it's important
that we communicate proposals and stimulate discussion of those
proposals; and then once we have a concensus that we incorporate
them into the standard. If we don't do this SBML will become
irrelevant: an irrelevant standard is not any use.

In the case of Jonathan's proposal I was under the impression
that it incorporated enough features from previous discussion
on sbml-discuss, including the EML proposal, so that it could
be used as a basis for a concensus and thus something we could
incorporate. It is obvious that I was wrong about that.

yours
Andrew Finney
+44 (0)1452 722487
from US - 011 44 1452 722487
University of Hertfordshire, UK

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: owner-sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu
&gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:owner-sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu">mailto:owner-sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu</A>] On Behalf Of Stefan Hoops
&gt; Sent: 02 September 2003 20:04
&gt; To: sbml-discuss@caltech.edu
&gt; Subject: Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout 
&gt; extension for SBML L2
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Hello All,
&gt; 
&gt; I strongly agree with Sven the DWG group needs to come up
&gt; with a joint proposal.
&gt; 
&gt; I actually had some problem with the way this proposal was
&gt; handled. It really smells like SBML == BioSpice. We should 
&gt; strongly avoid this! 
&gt; 
&gt; People from BioSpice play an important role but other people
&gt; in the DWG group are as important. Nobody suggest the 
&gt; proposal from EML to be incorporated into SBML. People are 
&gt; clearly treated differently with respect to their political 
&gt; cloud. We need to be fair to everybody! 
&gt; 
&gt; Note: I do not want start a flame war here ;)
&gt; 
&gt; Stefan
&gt;  
&gt; On Tue, 02 Sep 2003 16:10:54 +0200
&gt; Sven Sahle &lt;sven.sahle@eml.villa-bosch.de&gt; wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Hello all,
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; On Saturday 30 August 2003 13:01, Andrew Finney wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; Folks
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Jonathan Webb of BBN technologies has written a proposal for a
&gt; &gt; &gt; layout extension
&gt; &gt; [...]
&gt; &gt; &gt; Please comment on its incorporation into SBML.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I view Jonathan´s suggestion as an interesting information
&gt; about what
&gt; &gt; biospice´s needs are.
&gt; &gt; However it doesn´t seem to reflect a lot of the discussion 
&gt; that was going on
&gt; &gt; on this list.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; We think it is especially important to separate between layout and
&gt; &gt; render
&gt; &gt; information. Layout information is just where in the 
&gt; diagram the different
&gt; &gt; layout elements (species, reactions, compartments, labels)
&gt; are, how big they
&gt; &gt; are, and how they are connected. This is covered by our suggestion
&gt; &gt; (<A  HREF="http://projects.eml.org/bcb/sbml/level1">http://projects.eml.org/bcb/sbml/level1</A>; another revision 
&gt; is being worked
&gt; &gt; on). Render informations is about colours, shapes, line
&gt; widths, bitmaps. This
&gt; &gt; might be difficult to agree on because certainly different
&gt; programs would
&gt; &gt; have different needs here.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; organizational comments:
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; strictly IMHO - Mike Hucka will probably have comments
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; If there is consensus I don't see why we can't
&gt; incorporate this into
&gt; &gt; &gt; SBML before the November meeting.  For example I can take
&gt; Jonathan's
&gt; &gt; &gt; description and extend the SBML specification as a
&gt; proposed Level 2
&gt; &gt; &gt; Version 2.
&gt; &gt; &gt; We could then vote on this using Survey Monkey and/or
&gt; have an SBML forum
&gt; &gt; &gt; conference call to discuss this.  I think this is a viable idea 
&gt; &gt; &gt; since Jonathan's proposal is close enough to what people
&gt; are actually
&gt; &gt; &gt; doing with their implementations.  Similar proposals have been 
&gt; &gt; &gt; described at SBML forums previously with reasonable consensus.
&gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; Folks what do you think?
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; It might be a good idea if the DWG would come up with a
&gt; joint proposal
&gt; &gt; for the
&gt; &gt; november meeting.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Sven
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; --
&gt; Stefan Hoops, Ph.D.
&gt; Senior Research Associate
&gt; Virginia Bioinformatics Institute
&gt; 1880 Pratt Dr.
&gt; Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA
&gt; 
&gt; Phone: (540) 231-1799
&gt; Fax: (540) 231-2606
&gt; Email: shoops@vt.edu
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 






</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<HR>
<UL><LI><STRONG>Follow-Ups</STRONG>:
<UL>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00607" HREF="msg00607.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> &quot;Herbert M. Sauro&quot; &lt;hsauro@cds.caltech.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
</UL></LI></UL>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<UL><LI><STRONG>References</STRONG>:
<UL>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00604" HREF="msg00604.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> Stefan Hoops &lt;shoops@vt.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
</UL></LI></UL>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<UL>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00605.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00607.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Prev by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00605.html">Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00607.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Index(es):
<UL>
<LI><A HREF="maillist.html#00606"><STRONG>Date</STRONG></A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="threads.html#00606"><STRONG>Thread</STRONG></A></LI>
</UL>
</LI>
</UL>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</BODY>
</HTML>
