<!-- MHonArc v2.4.6 -->
<!--X-Subject: Re: [sbml&#45;discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2 -->
<!--X-From-R13: Egrsna Vbbcf <fubbcfNig.rqh> -->
<!--X-Date: Fri, 5 Sep 2003 08:56:26 &#45;0700 -->
<!--X-Message-Id: 20030905081311.0538a87c.shoops@vt.edu -->
<!--X-Content-Type: text/plain -->
<!--X-Reference: 002401c372b8$50c591e0$0200a8c0@AFINNEYLAPTOP -->
<!--X-Reference: Pine.LNX.4.44.0309041333550.31729&#45;100000@kincora.cds.caltech.edu -->
<!--X-Head-End-->
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</TITLE>
<LINK REV="made" HREF="mailto:shoops@vt.edu">
</HEAD>
<BODY BGCOLOR="white">
<!--X-Body-Begin-->
<!--X-User-Header-->
<!--X-User-Header-End-->
<!--X-TopPNI-->
<HR>
[<A HREF="msg00607.html">Date Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00609.html">Date Next</A>][<A HREF="msg00607.html">Thread Prev</A>][<A HREF="msg00603.html">Thread Next</A>][<A HREF="maillist.html#00608">Date Index</A>][<A HREF="threads.html#00608">Thread Index</A>]
<!--X-TopPNI-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-->
<!--X-Subject-Header-Begin-->
<H1>Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</H1>
<HR>
<!--X-Subject-Header-End-->
<!--X-Head-of-Message-->
<UL>
<LI><em>To</em>: <A HREF="mailto:sbml-discuss@caltech.edu">sbml-discuss@caltech.edu</A></LI>
<LI><em>Subject</em>: Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</LI>
<LI><em>From</em>: Stefan Hoops &lt;<A HREF="mailto:shoops@vt.edu">shoops@vt.edu</A>&gt;</LI>
<LI><em>Date</em>: Fri, 5 Sep 2003 08:13:11 -0400</LI>
<LI><em>Organization</em>: Virginia Bioinformatics Institute</LI>
</UL>
<!--X-Head-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-Begin-->
<HR>
<!--X-Head-Body-Sep-End-->
<!--X-Body-of-Message-->
<PRE>
Hello All,

I totally agree with both of you Herbert and Andrew. We should look at both suggestions, pick, choose and come to a consensus.  The latter will be difficult in this group but we always manage ;)

Stefan

On Thu, 04 Sep 2003 13:36:48 -0700 (PDT)
"Herbert M. Sauro" &lt;hsauro@cds.caltech.edu&gt; wrote:

&gt; I think we can work with Jonathan's proposal, and take further 
&gt; ideas from the EML work and others to move towards an accepted layout 
&gt; proposal. There are items missing from both these proposals, as there are 
&gt; things missing from my own, but together we should be able to get 
&gt; something. I will study Jonathan's work more closely and attempt to 
&gt; implement something before christmas as a way to become familiar with it.
&gt; 
&gt; Herbert
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; On Thu, 4 Sep 2003, Andrew Finney wrote:
&gt; 
&gt; &gt; Stefan
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I totally agree with your views: SBML != Biospice.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; I'd like to clarify a few issues:
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; The most important issue with respect to SBML standardization
&gt; &gt; is concensus.  We won't incorperate anything into SBML unless
&gt; &gt; its clear a very significant majority of the community, that
&gt; &gt; is people reading this mailing list and attending forum
&gt; &gt; meetings, think the given proposal is acceptable. That is why
&gt; &gt; I wrote "If there is concensus..." in my original posting
&gt; &gt; (see below).
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; Strictly within the bounds of the above principle it's important
&gt; &gt; that we communicate proposals and stimulate discussion of those
&gt; &gt; proposals; and then once we have a concensus that we incorporate
&gt; &gt; them into the standard. If we don't do this SBML will become
&gt; &gt; irrelevant: an irrelevant standard is not any use.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; In the case of Jonathan's proposal I was under the impression
&gt; &gt; that it incorporated enough features from previous discussion
&gt; &gt; on sbml-discuss, including the EML proposal, so that it could
&gt; &gt; be used as a basis for a concensus and thus something we could
&gt; &gt; incorporate. It is obvious that I was wrong about that.
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; yours
&gt; &gt; Andrew Finney
&gt; &gt; +44 (0)1452 722487
&gt; &gt; from US - 011 44 1452 722487
&gt; &gt; University of Hertfordshire, UK
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; &gt; &gt; From: owner-sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu
&gt; &gt; &gt; [<A  HREF="mailto:owner-sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu">mailto:owner-sbml-discuss@its.caltech.edu</A>] On Behalf Of Stefan Hoops
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sent: 02 September 2003 20:04
&gt; &gt; &gt; To: sbml-discuss@caltech.edu
&gt; &gt; &gt; Subject: Re: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout 
&gt; &gt; &gt; extension for SBML L2
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Hello All,
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I strongly agree with Sven the DWG group needs to come up
&gt; &gt; &gt; with a joint proposal.
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; I actually had some problem with the way this proposal was
&gt; &gt; &gt; handled. It really smells like SBML == BioSpice. We should 
&gt; &gt; &gt; strongly avoid this! 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; People from BioSpice play an important role but other people
&gt; &gt; &gt; in the DWG group are as important. Nobody suggest the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; proposal from EML to be incorporated into SBML. People are 
&gt; &gt; &gt; clearly treated differently with respect to their political 
&gt; &gt; &gt; cloud. We need to be fair to everybody! 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Note: I do not want start a flame war here ;)
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Stefan
&gt; &gt; &gt;  
&gt; &gt; &gt; On Tue, 02 Sep 2003 16:10:54 +0200
&gt; &gt; &gt; Sven Sahle &lt;sven.sahle@eml.villa-bosch.de&gt; wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Hello all,
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; On Saturday 30 August 2003 13:01, Andrew Finney wrote:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Folks
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Jonathan Webb of BBN technologies has written a proposal for a
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; layout extension
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; [...]
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Please comment on its incorporation into SBML.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; I view Jonathan´s suggestion as an interesting information
&gt; &gt; &gt; about what
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; biospice´s needs are.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; However it doesn´t seem to reflect a lot of the discussion 
&gt; &gt; &gt; that was going on
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; on this list.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; We think it is especially important to separate between layout and
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; render
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; information. Layout information is just where in the 
&gt; &gt; &gt; diagram the different
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; layout elements (species, reactions, compartments, labels)
&gt; &gt; &gt; are, how big they
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; are, and how they are connected. This is covered by our suggestion
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; (<A  HREF="http://projects.eml.org/bcb/sbml/level1">http://projects.eml.org/bcb/sbml/level1</A>; another revision 
&gt; &gt; &gt; is being worked
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; on). Render informations is about colours, shapes, line
&gt; &gt; &gt; widths, bitmaps. This
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; might be difficult to agree on because certainly different
&gt; &gt; &gt; programs would
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; have different needs here.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; organizational comments:
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; strictly IMHO - Mike Hucka will probably have comments
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; If there is consensus I don't see why we can't
&gt; &gt; &gt; incorporate this into
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; SBML before the November meeting.  For example I can take
&gt; &gt; &gt; Jonathan's
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; description and extend the SBML specification as a
&gt; &gt; &gt; proposed Level 2
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Version 2.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; We could then vote on this using Survey Monkey and/or
&gt; &gt; &gt; have an SBML forum
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; conference call to discuss this.  I think this is a viable idea 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; since Jonathan's proposal is close enough to what people
&gt; &gt; &gt; are actually
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; doing with their implementations.  Similar proposals have been 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; described at SBML forums previously with reasonable consensus.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Folks what do you think?
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; It might be a good idea if the DWG would come up with a
&gt; &gt; &gt; joint proposal
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; for the
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; november meeting.
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; Sven
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; --
&gt; &gt; &gt; Stefan Hoops, Ph.D.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Senior Research Associate
&gt; &gt; &gt; Virginia Bioinformatics Institute
&gt; &gt; &gt; 1880 Pratt Dr.
&gt; &gt; &gt; Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; Phone: (540) 231-1799
&gt; &gt; &gt; Fax: (540) 231-2606
&gt; &gt; &gt; Email: shoops@vt.edu
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 


-- 
Stefan Hoops, Ph.D.
Senior Research Associate
Virginia Bioinformatics Institute
1880 Pratt Dr.
Blacksburg, VA 24061, USA

Phone: (540) 231-1799
Fax: (540) 231-2606
Email: shoops@vt.edu




</PRE>

<!--X-Body-of-Message-End-->
<!--X-MsgBody-End-->
<!--X-Follow-Ups-->
<HR>
<!--X-Follow-Ups-End-->
<!--X-References-->
<UL><LI><STRONG>References</STRONG>:
<UL>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00606" HREF="msg00606.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> &quot;Andrew Finney&quot; &lt;afinney@cds.caltech.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
<LI><STRONG><A NAME="00607" HREF="msg00607.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
<UL><LI><EM>From:</EM> &quot;Herbert M. Sauro&quot; &lt;hsauro@cds.caltech.edu&gt;</LI></UL></LI>
</UL></LI></UL>
<!--X-References-End-->
<!--X-BotPNI-->
<UL>
<LI>Prev by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00607.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by Date:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00609.html">[sbml-discuss] DWG: Revised Proposal</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Prev by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00607.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Next by thread:
<STRONG><A HREF="msg00603.html">RE: [sbml-discuss] FW: Proposal for a layout extension for SBML L2</A></STRONG>
</LI>
<LI>Index(es):
<UL>
<LI><A HREF="maillist.html#00608"><STRONG>Date</STRONG></A></LI>
<LI><A HREF="threads.html#00608"><STRONG>Thread</STRONG></A></LI>
</UL>
</LI>
</UL>

<!--X-BotPNI-End-->
<!--X-User-Footer-->
<!--X-User-Footer-End-->
</BODY>
</HTML>
